README.md, before:

# Singularity Web SDK Boilerplate

Welcome to the Singularity Web SDK Boilerplate! This project demonstrates the integration of `snet-sdk-web`, focusing on wallet management and service utilization within the SingularityNET ecosystem. It supports two types of wallets: a browser extension wallet similar to MetaMask and a social authentication-based wallet.


### Features:
- Integration of desktop/mobile and social authentication-based wallets.
- Seamless interaction with SingularityNET services using `snet-sdk-web`.
- Facilities to purchase AGIX tokens through on-ramp service.


### Service details:

By default, the project is configured with two example services: one for the Ethereum Mainnet and one for the Sepolia Testnet.

#### Mainnet Example Service:
**Organization ID:** snet \
**Service:** Text Summaries(news-summary) \
**Service URL:** https://beta.singularitynet.io/servicedetails/org/snet/service/news-summary \
**Network:** Ethereum Mainnet \
**Description:** This service offers a concise summary of news articles. Based on input text the service returns a summarized version of the content.

#### Testnet Example Service:
**Organization ID:** Naint1 \
**Service ID:** ServNaint7 \
**Network:** Sepolia Testnet \
**Description:** This is an example service configured for the Sepolia Testnet.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher)

### Installation
1. Clone the repository and navigate to the directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/singnet/ICP-boilerplate
cd ICP-boilerplate
```

2. Copy the .env.example file to .env and update the values as necessary:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Install the required dependencies::
```bash
npm install
```

4. Start the development server:
```bash
npm start
```

### Environment Variables
The project requires certain environment variables to be set in the `.env` file. Below is a list of the required variables and their descriptions:

| Variable Name                       | Description                                                                      | Where to Get It                                                  |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `REACT_APP_ENV`                     | Specifies the environment (`development` or `production`).                   | Set this manually.                                               |
| `REACT_APP_ALCHEMY_API_KEY`         | API key for accessing Alchemy services.                                          | [Alchemy API Keys](https://alchemy.com)                          |
| `REACT_APP_PARTICLE_AUTH_PROJECT_ID`| Project ID for Particle authentication.                                          | [Particle Network](https://particle.network/)                    |
| `REACT_APP_PARTICLE_AUTH_CLIENT_KEY`| Client key for Particle authentication.                                          | [Particle Network](https://particle.network/)                    |
| `REACT_APP_PARTICLE_AUTH_APP_ID`    | Application ID for Particle authentication.                                      | [Particle Network](https://particle.network/)                    |
| `REACT_APP_NETWORK`                 | Specifies the blockchain network to connect to (`mainnet` or `sepolia`).                | Set this manually.                                               |
| `REACT_APP_INFURA_PROJECT_ID`       | Project ID for accessing Infura services.                                        | [Infura](https://infura.io)                                      |
| `REACT_APP_WALLET_CONNECT_PROJECT_ID`| Project ID for Wallet Connect integration.                                       | [Wallet Connect](https://walletconnect.com/)                     |

### Configuring Service
The components that interact with the service are located in src/pages/ExampleService.
The app automatically chooses which service to display based on the `REACT_APP_NETWORK` selected:
- For `sepolia`, it uses `TestExampleService`.
- For `mainnet`, it uses `ExampleService`.

To configure the project to work with your service, you need to specify the `orgId` and `serviceId` in the `src/config/service.ts` file. There are two configurations: one for mainnet and one for sepolia testnet.

1. Open the `src/config/service.ts` file.
2. Update the `orgId` and `serviceId` values to match your desired SingularityNET service.
    ```typescript
    orgId: "your-organization-id",
    serviceId: "your-service-id"
    ```

### ExampleService Component

The `ExampleService/TestExampleService` component provides a user interface for interacting with your service on the `Ethereum/Sepolia` network. Below is a description of its main functions and how to use them.

#### Functions

- **newChat**: Adds a new chat message to the conversation, either from the user or the bot.
- **runService**: Sends a request to the text service with the user-provided text and handles the response. If the service returns a response successfully, it adds the response as a bot message in the chat.

#### How to Use

1. **Entering Text**: In the text area provided, users can enter the text they wish to send to service. By default, there is a sample input text provided.
2. **Sernding request**: After entering the text, users can click the `ActionButton` button. This will add the message to chat by `newChat` function and send the text to the service by `runService` function.
3. **Viewing Responses**: The responses from the service will be displayed in the chat area by `newChat` function. User messages will be distinguished from bot responses.

The component also displays the organization and service name configured in the `src/config/service.ts`.

### Generating JavaScript Files for Your Services

You will need to compile the `.proto` files from your service to JavaScript files and place them in the `src/ExampleService/assets` folder. After that, you can call functions from the generated js files in the service component, as it is done now in `ExampleService`
```typescript
    import { example } from "./assets/mainnet/summary_pb_service";
    ...
    await clientSDK.unary(example.TextSummary.summary, invokeOptions);
```
Apart from the steps mentioned at the official [documentation](https://github.com/improbable-eng/grpc-web/blob/master/client/grpc-web/docs/code-generation.md) to generate `js` stubs from `.proto` definitions, you also need to provide the namespace_prefix flag to the generator. Here is an example which illustrates the usage:

For Linux
```bash
protoc \
--plugin=protoc-gen-ts=./node_modules/.bin/protoc-gen-ts \
--js_out=import_style=commonjs,binary,namespace_prefix=\
[package name]_[org id]_[service]:. --ts_out=service=grpc-web:. \
[proto file name].proto
```

For Windows CMD
```bash
protoc ^
--plugin=protoc-gen-ts=%cd%/node_modules/.bin/protoc-gen-ts.cmd ^ --js_out=import_style=commonjs,binary,namespace_prefix=^
[package name]_[org id]_[service]:. --ts_out=service=grpc-web:. ^
[proto file name].proto
```

Commit message:

Update readme: add components section for ExampleService, complete description for functions

README.md, after:

# Singularity Web SDK Boilerplate

Welcome to the Singularity Web SDK Boilerplate! This project demonstrates the integration of `snet-sdk-web`, focusing on wallet management and service utilization within the SingularityNET ecosystem. It supports two types of wallets: a browser extension wallet similar to MetaMask and a social authentication-based wallet.


### Features:
- Integration of desktop/mobile and social authentication-based wallets.
- Seamless interaction with SingularityNET services using `snet-sdk-web`.
- Facilities to purchase AGIX tokens through on-ramp service.


### Service details:

By default, the project is configured with two example services: one for the Ethereum Mainnet and one for the Sepolia Testnet.

#### Mainnet Example Service:
**Organization ID:** snet \
**Service:** Text Summaries(news-summary) \
**Service URL:** https://beta.singularitynet.io/servicedetails/org/snet/service/news-summary \
**Network:** Ethereum Mainnet \
**Description:** This service offers a concise summary of news articles. Based on input text the service returns a summarized version of the content.

#### Testnet Example Service:
**Organization ID:** Naint1 \
**Service ID:** ServNaint7 \
**Network:** Sepolia Testnet \
**Description:** This is an example service configured for the Sepolia Testnet.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher)

### Installation
1. Clone the repository and navigate to the directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/singnet/ICP-boilerplate
cd ICP-boilerplate
```

2. Copy the .env.example file to .env and update the values as necessary:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Install the required dependencies::
```bash
npm install
```

4. Start the development server:
```bash
npm start
```

### Environment Variables
The project requires certain environment variables to be set in the `.env` file. Below is a list of the required variables and their descriptions:

| Variable Name                       | Description                                                                      | Where to Get It                                                  |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `REACT_APP_ENV`                     | Specifies the environment (`development` or `production`).                   | Set this manually.                                               |
| `REACT_APP_ALCHEMY_API_KEY`         | API key for accessing Alchemy services.                                          | [Alchemy API Keys](https://alchemy.com)                          |
| `REACT_APP_PARTICLE_AUTH_PROJECT_ID`| Project ID for Particle authentication.                                          | [Particle Network](https://particle.network/)                    |
| `REACT_APP_PARTICLE_AUTH_CLIENT_KEY`| Client key for Particle authentication.                                          | [Particle Network](https://particle.network/)                    |
| `REACT_APP_PARTICLE_AUTH_APP_ID`    | Application ID for Particle authentication.                                      | [Particle Network](https://particle.network/)                    |
| `REACT_APP_NETWORK`                 | Specifies the blockchain network to connect to (`mainnet` or `sepolia`).                | Set this manually.                                               |
| `REACT_APP_INFURA_PROJECT_ID`       | Project ID for accessing Infura services.                                        | [Infura](https://infura.io)                                      |
| `REACT_APP_WALLET_CONNECT_PROJECT_ID`| Project ID for Wallet Connect integration.                                       | [Wallet Connect](https://walletconnect.com/)                     |

### Configuring Service
The components that interact with the service are located in src/pages/ExampleService.
The app automatically chooses which service to display based on the `REACT_APP_NETWORK` selected:
- For `sepolia`, it uses `TestExampleService`.
- For `mainnet`, it uses `ExampleService`.

To configure the project to work with your service, you need to specify the `orgId` and `serviceId` in the `src/config/service.ts` file. There are two configurations: one for mainnet and one for sepolia testnet.

1. Open the `src/config/service.ts` file.
2. Update the `orgId` and `serviceId` values to match your desired SingularityNET service.
    ```typescript
    orgId: "your-organization-id",
    serviceId: "your-service-id"
    ```

### ExampleService Component

The `ExampleService/TestExampleService` component provides a user interface for interacting with your service on the `Ethereum/Sepolia` network. Below is a description of its main functions and how to use them.

#### UI Components
- **Textarea**: The `Textarea` component is used to capture user input.
- **ActionButton**: The `ActionButton` component is a custom button used to trigger the service call. It displays the cost of the service and shows a loading indicator when the user call process is in progress.
- **DebugConsole**: The `DebugConsole` component is used to display debugging information when the application is in development mode. It is conditionally rendered based on the REACT_APP_ENV flag from the `.env`.

#### Functions

- **newChat**: Adds a new chat message to the conversation, either from the user or the bot.\
Usage example:
  ```typescript
  newChat("user", "This is a user's message.");
  newChat("bot", "This is a bot's response.");
  ```
- **runService**: Sends a request to the text service with the user-provided text and handles the response. If the service returns a response successfully, it adds the response as a bot message in the chat.\
Ensure you replace the service call and response handling in the `runService` function with the appropriate calls to your own service as defined in the protobuf files.

#### How to Use

1. **Entering Text**: In the text area provided, users can enter the text they wish to send to service. By default, there is a sample input text provided.
2. **Sending request**: After entering the text, users can click the `ActionButton` button. This will add the message to chat by `newChat` function and send the text to the service by `runService` function.
3. **Viewing Responses**: The responses from the service will be displayed in the chat area by `newChat` function. User messages will be distinguished from bot responses.

The component also displays the organization and service name configured in the `src/config/service.ts`.

### Generating JavaScript Files for Your Services

You will need to compile the `.proto` files from your service to JavaScript files and place them in the `src/ExampleService/assets` folder. After that, you can call functions from the generated js files in the service component, as it is done now in `ExampleService`
```typescript
    import { example } from "./assets/mainnet/summary_pb_service";
    ...
    await clientSDK.unary(example.TextSummary.summary, invokeOptions);
```
Apart from the steps mentioned at the official [documentation](https://github.com/improbable-eng/grpc-web/blob/master/client/grpc-web/docs/code-generation.md) to generate `js` stubs from `.proto` definitions, you also need to provide the namespace_prefix flag to the generator. Here is an example which illustrates the usage:

For Linux
```bash
protoc \
--plugin=protoc-gen-ts=./node_modules/.bin/protoc-gen-ts \
--js_out=import_style=commonjs,binary,namespace_prefix=\
[package name]_[org id]_[service]:. --ts_out=service=grpc-web:. \
[proto file name].proto
```

For Windows CMD
```bash
protoc ^
--plugin=protoc-gen-ts=%cd%/node_modules/.bin/protoc-gen-ts.cmd ^ --js_out=import_style=commonjs,binary,namespace_prefix=^
[package name]_[org id]_[service]:. --ts_out=service=grpc-web:. ^
[proto file name].proto
```
